# BIOMD0000000438: MODEL1301110000

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000438.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000438.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Saeidi2012 - Quorum sensing device that produces GFP

Saeidi _et al._ (2012) has modelled a quorum sensing device that produces
green fluorescent protein (GFP) as reporter in the presence of Acyl Homoserine
Lactone (AHL).

This model is described in the article:

[Characterization of a quorum sensing device for synthetic biology design:
Experimental and modeling
validation](http://identifiers.org/doi/10.1016/j.ces.2012.12.016)

Nazanin Saeidi, Mohamed Arshath, Matthew Wook Chang, Chueh Loo Poh

Chemical Engineering Science. December 2012.

Abstract:

Modeling of biological parts is of crucial importance as it enables the in
silico study of synthetic biological systems prior to the actual construction
of genetic circuits, which can be time consuming and costly. Because standard
biological parts are utilized to build the synthetic systems, it is important
that each of these standard parts is well characterized and has a
corresponding mathematical model that could simulate the characteristics of
the part. These models could be used in computer aided design (CAD) tools
during the design stage to facilitate the building of the model of biological
systems. This paper describes the development of a mathematical model that is
able to simulate both the dynamic and static performance of a biological
device created using standard parts. We modeled an example quorum sensing
device that produces green fluorescent protein (GFP) as reporter in the
presence of Acyl Homoserine Lactone (AHL). The parameters of the model were
estimated using experimental results. The simulation results show that the
model was able to simulate behavior similar to experimental results. Since it
is important that these models and the content in the models can be searchable
and readable by machines, standard SBML (system biology markup language)
format was used to store the models. All parts and reactions are fully
annotated to enable easy searching, and the models follow the Minimum
Information Requested In the Annotation of Models (MIRIAM) compliance as well
as the Minimum Information About a Simulation Experiment (MIASE).

Figure 4a of the reference publication has been reproduced as curation figure.
The plot shows the performance of the model at different concentrations of the
inducer (3OC12HSL=5E-10, 5E-07, 5E-07).

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[MODEL1301110000](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/MODEL1301110000) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


